---
layout: post
title:  "Friends don't let other friends install tools in their system"
tags: azure powershell
author: "Øystein Stræte"
---

# Friends don't let other friends install tools in their system. 

## The challenge

Whether you develop applications, infrastructure as code or both, chances are that you need to install dependencies on your system to build and run the code. This may work fine for single projects with few maintainers, but when you start to work across many different projects with many contributors you will start to face challenges. When you have new contributors on your project you will want them to get started as quick and seamless as possible with spending as little time as necessary on installing tools. What if we had a tool that could make the same tools available for every contributor without any installation.

## Enter devcontainers

This is what devcontainers solve. With devcontainers you can run the exactly the same tools as other member of the projects. With devcontainers the dependencies of the project are bundled together with the project itself. This means that the dependencies for the contributors will be reduced to 2 single tools: Docker and devcontainers. The rest of the tools is in the projects devcontainer. But what is a devcontainer? At the core, a devcontainer is just a Docker image with some extra features added on top of it. For example, when you spin up a projects devcontainer it automatically mounts the local file system to the devcontainer in the path `/workspaces/myproject`. 

[img here]

## How to get started using devcontainers

[url to code]

To get started using devcontainers you will first need to install the Docker engine on your system. If you're on Windows the recommended approach is to use WSL2 as a backend. Personally I use the [Docker engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/) for Ubuntu. In a WSL2 system I install the Docker engine directly from Windows, but I know some people prefer to install it directly from Windows. I have never tried Docker desktop so I don't have any opinion on the desktop features. 

When you have the Docker engine installed the next step is to install devcontainer. Chances are that you're using Visual Studio Code, in which case installing devcontainer can be done by [installing the official extension from Microsoft](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers). If you don't use Visual Studio Code or want to install the CLI in addition, this can be done using `npm`:

```sh 
npm install -g @devcontainers/cli
```

